Om Mitraay nam:, Om Ravaye nam
Paritranaya Sadhunam, Vinashaya Cha Dushkritam, Dharmasamsthapanaarthaya, Sambhavami Yuge Yuge!"
"For the protection of good and the destruction of evil,
For the purpose of reinstating righteousness, I shall incarnate in every Yuga!"
These words were spoken by Lord Krishna as a revelation about his divinity to Arjuna, during the Mahabharat War in Kurukshetra. 
YUGAS:
Yugas are cyclical time periods which separate different "ages" of human civilizations. There are four Yugas namely Satya Yuga (the Golden age), Treta Yuga (Silver aget. Dvapara Yuga (Bronze age) and Kali Yuga (the Iron age). Yugas function in cyclical patterns, like the waxing and waning of the moon. Each of the four Yugas involves stages of evolution. Although there is a debate amongst scholars about the duration of these ages it is understood that ratio of duration of all the ages from Satya Yuga to Kali Yuga is 4:32:1Some interpretations of Srimad Bhagavatam indicates the duration of the Satya Yuga is equivalent to 4,800 years of the Demigods. Treta Yoga lasted for 3600 years (of demigods) Dvapara Yuga lasted for 2,400 years (of demigods); while Kali Yuga lasted for 1.200 years (of demigods). A year of a demigod would be equivalent to 360 human years, it is believed that the Satya Yuga lasted for 1.728,000 years, while the Treta Yuga, on the other hand lasted for 1,296,000 years. The Dvapara Yuga continued for 8.64,000 years. The Kali Yuga lasts for 4.32.000 years. Each Yuga denotes a gradual decline of wisdom, knowledge, intellect, and spirituality from Satya Yuga to Kali Yuga eventually ending all of humanity and resetting of this,cycle
Four Yugas Ages/Cycle - The Time Period in Years:
Each Yuga Cycle lasts for 4,320,000 years (12,000 divine years) with its four Yugas and their parts occurring in the following order.
*Krita (Satya) Yuga: 1,728,000 (4.800 divine) years
*Treta Yuga: 1,296,000 (3,600 divine) years
*Dvapara Yuga: 864,000 (2.400 divine) years
*Kali Yuga: 432.000 (1,200 divine) years
Dashavatara – The 10 Avatars of Lord Vishnu:
Dashavatara (also spelled Dashavatar) is a collective noun used for the 10 avatars (incarnations) of Lord Vishnu on the Earth. ‘Dasha’ means ten and ‘Avatara’ means incarnation. The 4 of them took place in the Satya Yuga, 3 in Treta Yuga, 1 in Dvapara Yuga, 1 in Kali Yuga and 1 is yet to take place in Kali Yuga. There are believed to be a total of 24 Avatars of Lord Vishnu, but these 10 are principal incarnations and are more popular than others.
1.Matsya:
This is the first incarnation of Lord Vishnu. In this Avatara, Lord Vishnu appeared in a part-fish and part-man form and saved Manu and seven sages along with other species of animals from the Great Deluge.
2.Kurma:
Kurmavatara (Kurma means a turtle) means incarnation of Lord Vishnu as a turtle. It was the second incarnation of Lord Vishnu. In this incarnation, Lord Vishnu helped gods and demons to churn the milky sea and take out the nectar. Lord Vishnu further made sure that demons did not get the nectar.
3.Varaha:
Lord Vishnu incarnated as a half boar and half man.  He killed a demon Hiranyaksha who had taken the earth at the bottom of a cosmic sea and restored the Earth in its place. This avatar took place in Satya Yuga.
4.Narasimha:
Narasimha Avatar (Nara means “man” and Simha means “lion”) was the fourth incarnation of Lord Vishnu in the form of a part-man and part-lion who killed the despotic demon king Hiranyakashipu and restored dharma on the Earth. This incarnation happened in Satya Yuga. 
5.Vamana:
Vamana (means dwarf) Avatar was the fifth incarnation of Lord Vishnu that took place in the Treta Yuga. He was the first incarnation of Vishnu as a human being. He took back the kingdom of gods from Asura king Bali and gave it back to the king of demi-Gods, Indra.
6.Parashurama:
Parshuram, the Brahmin warrior, is the sixth incarnation of Lord Vishnu. He is one of the eight immortals of Hindu mythology. He is a Brahmin who turned into a warrior after the murder of his parents by Kshatriyas. Lord Parashurama got a divine ax from Lord Shiva to kill Kshatriyas who had forgotten their dharma. It took place in the Treta Yuga.
7.Rama:
Lord Rama was the seventh incarnation of Narayana. He was the prince of Ayodhya who later became a king. He killed the demon king Ravana who abducted his wife Sita and freed many human beings captive. It took place in the Treta Yuga.
8.Lord Krishna:
Lord Krishna was the eighth incarnation of Lord Vishnu. He killed many demons and guided Pandavas to kill the evil Duryodhana and his forces. He also narrated Bhagavadgita to Arjuna which is a major book of Hindus. It took place in the Dvapara Yuga.
9.Buddha:
As per Hinduism, Gautama Buddha is the ninth incarnation of Lord Vishnu. This avatar took place in Kali Yuga. He spread the message of peace through Buddhism.
OR
9.Balarama:
Many Vaishnavites believe that Balarama was the ninth Avatar of Lord Vishnu and not Lord Buddha, but commonly, he is believed to be an incarnation of Sheshanaga. Lord Balarama was the elder brother of Lord Krishna. He helped him kill Kamsa and many other demons. His weapon was a divine plow and is the god of agriculture and strength.
10.Kalki:
Kalki Avatar will be the tenth and final incarnation of Lord Vishnu. He would free Earth of all the sinners and restore Dharma. It is prophecized that he would be born in Sambhala village in a Brahmin family at the end of Kali Yuga.
What happens after kaliyuga:
It is widely believed that during the end of Kali Yuga the last avatar of Lord Vishnu by the name of Kalki will appear to establish dharma in this world, he will denote the pinnacle of human evolution after which Pralaya or complete destruction of the world may take place either as massive earthquake or flood or meteor shower. Humanity will be brough to extinction and the Yugas cycle will be reset and Satya Yuga will begin again. Pralaya means the destruction of the three Lokas. According to the Vishnu Purana, there are four types of Pralayas, the Naimittika (occasional) Prakritik (elemental), Atyantika (absolute) and Nitya (perpetual).The Vishnu Purana regards Lord Vishnu, not only as the creator, but also the destroyer of the universe Pralaya occurs when Lord Brahma, the Lord of the Universe is asleep. It happens at the end of a Kalpa of Brahmas life. The Vishnu Purana elaborates the span of time of Brahma's Day One year of mant denotes one day and night of the Gods Four ages of men consist of twelve thousand divine years. A period of four thousand ages denotes a day of Brahma. This period is also called a Kalpa. As a Kalpa constitutes a day of Lord Brahma, so the night os also of the same duration. When the universal spirit sleeps, all creatures are destroyed. The dissolution is termed incidental because Hart in the form of Lord Brahma sleeps there as its incidental cause it is also indicated in the Vishnu Purana that the dissolution occurs only in the three Lokas, Le Bhu Bhuva and Sva. It is said that Vishnu, the destroyer of all things in the form of Rudra reduces the patala into ashes. The great fire consumes the Bhu (earth). Bhuvatthe atmosphere) and the sphere of the gods (Swan These clouds at first quench the dreadful fire by showering torrents of water. These rains then inundate the three worlds Pralaya occurs when Brahmanda dissolves in Prakriti. The egg of Brahma gets dissolved in the waters which surround it with its seven Lokas, seven oceans, seven islands and the mountains. Air is merged in ether and Bhutadi devours the ether. Mahat again take up Arumkara: Frakriti absorbs Mahat and all these. Prakriti and Purusa are dissolved into the supreme spirit. This is Prakrita Pralaya.























